Add Mini Apps series (#3938)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/mini-apps/what-are-mini-apps/index.md

---
layout: post
title: What are mini apps?
authors:
  - thomassteiner
date: 2021-01-25
# updated: 2021-01-25
description: |
  This chapter introduces the concept of mini apps and provides examples of their look and feel.
tags:
  - mini-apps
---

## Building blocks and compatibility

> Mini apps are small (commonly less than 4MB) apps that require a super app to run. What they have in

Author: ```suggestion
Mini apps are small (commonly less than 4MB) apps that require a
[super app](/what-are-super-apps/#what-are-super-apps)
to run. What they have in
```

common, independent of the super app, is that they are built with ("dialects" of) the Web
technologies HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. The runtime of a mini app is a

> [WebView](https://research.google/pubs/pub46739/) in the super app, not the underlying operating

Reviewer: What's a super app?

Author: Adding a link again.

system, which means mini apps are cross platform. What this means is that the same mini app can run
in the same super app, no matter if the super app runs on Android, iOS, or another OS. However, not
all mini apps can run in all super apps, more on this [later](/mini-app-standardization/).

## Discovery

> Mini apps are often discovered _ad-hoc_ via branded 2d barcodes, which solves an important

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mini apps are often discovered _ad-hoc_ via branded 2D barcodes, which solves an important
```

offline-to-online challenge, for example, getting from a physical restaurant menu to a payment mini
app, or from a physical e-scooter to a rental min app. The image below depicts an example of such a
branded 2d barcode. It is for
[WeChat's demo mini app](https://github.com/wechat-miniprogram/miniprogram-demo). When the code is
scanned with the WeChat super app, the mini app launches directly. Super apps other than in this

> case WeChat typically will not recognize the barcode.

Reviewer: The last sentence doesn't make any sense.

Author: Rephrased.

> scanned with the WeChat super app, the mini app launches directly. Super apps other than in this
> case WeChat typically will not recognize the barcode.

Author: ```suggestion
scanned with the WeChat super app, the mini app launches directly.
Other super apps will typically not be able to recognize the barcode.
```

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img src="2d-barcode.jpg" alt="WeChat-branded 2d barcode." width="250">
  <figcaption class="w-figure">
    Scanning this 2d barcode with the WeChat app launches a demo mini app.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Mini apps can also be discovered through regular in-app search in the super app, be shared in chat
messages, or be part of a news item in a news feed. Some super apps have the notion of verified
accounts that can contain mini apps in their profiles. Mini apps can be highlighted when they are

> _(i)_ physically geographically close, like the mini app of a business in front of which the user

Reviewer: It's not typical to italicize these numbers.

> _(i)_ physically geographically close, like the mini app of a business in front of which the user
> stands, or _(ii)_ virtually close, like when the user gets directions on a map shown in the super

Author: ```suggestion
(i) physically geographically close, like the mini app of a business in front of which the user
stands, or (ii) virtually close, like when the user gets directions on a map shown in the super
```

> ---

Reviewer 2: `web.dev/mini-app-introduction`?

Author: Done.
